hi there I'm chef Eric Crowley owner of
the culinary classroom in West Los
Angeles and today I'm going to show you
how to cut a lozenge out of a potato a
lozenge is a very obscure cut sometimes
your mind of finding it in some older
cookbooks and you would find this
particular cut to be a nice little thing
to have in your repertoire just for a
little garnish here there but as far as
like a general cut as far as some of
your more common known cuts this is
definitely not going to be it so a
lozenge is basically a diamond-shaped
cut and I'm gonna start off by taking my
whole potato and I'm gonna square off my
sides middle ring and pinky finger
around the handle thumb and forefinger
around the blade I'm gonna cut a flat
piece off of the potato right here so I
can sit it and get it stabilized on that
flat section I'm gonna cut off this
rounded side here along with this one as
well maybe even cut off the ends too
then I'm gonna take this piece and lay
it on its side and I'm gonna cut some
quarter-inch wide strips
just do a couple just to give you an
idea and I'm gonna take these strips and
actually cut half inch wide strips from
these and then to make my lozenge I'm
gonna take these strips and I'm actually
going to hold my knife at an angle
sometimes it'll be called give it a bias
cut I'm gonna take one of these strips
and turn it to where it's perpendicular
to my knife I'm gonna hold the knife at
a little bit of an angle or a bias and
I'm gonna go ahead and cut off that
corner right there then I'm gonna move
on over I have my thumb at the back of
my Strip fingertips curled underneath
and then basically start to make some
parallel cuts like this making a little
diamond shape so as you can see there is
quite a bit of scrap pieces of potato
that are left over that's one of the
reasons why you don't see this very
often but if you wanted to put a couple
onto a plate to garnish say for example
a potato leek soup or they even sprinkle
around an entree that these guys could
actually saute very quickly with a
little bit of oil and butter get them
golden brown on both sides then you've
got a nice bowl garnish and that is how
you cut a lozenge out of a potato
thanks again for watching be sure to
subscribe so you can get some additional
information if there's a recipe that you
would like to see me make feel free to
send an email to requests at Mahalo com
thanks again and I'll see you soon